Doing videos about gay representation in movies
and TV on a regular basis for about a year
and half now, I’ve gotten a lot — and
I mean a lot — of comments from people trying
to explain to me that the reason movie studios
dont put gay characters in their movies isn’t
because of American or corporate homopboia.
It’s not because they want to appease right
wing Christians.
And it’s certainly not because they know
they can get the gay money without creating
any real gay representation.
No.
The real reason they don’t give us gay action
stars and super heroes is “China.”
They usually refer to it as the country as
a whole, too.
As if every single person in China signed
a letter to Hollywood demanding no gay characters
in movies or TV.
Instead of the reality of it being the Chinese
government.
You can check the comments of any video I
make that mentions Disney and you’ll find
hundreds of these people explaining this to
me.
That I simply don’t understand the politics
of Hollywood or the business relationship
the industry has with China.
Well, I figured that since I actually have
a degree in film and another degree in business,
maybe I could actually explain this whole
situation in a bit more detail than you’d
usually get in a YouTube comment.
Because it is true that the Chinese government
has very anti-LGBT policies across the nation,
and they’re VERY not fond of any LGBT representation
in media… and both sets of policies are
actually becoming more draconian with each
passing day.
But what you might be shocked to find out
is that Hollywood is not required to bend
to the will of the Chinese government in order
to make a profit.
In fact, the Chinese government is making
it less and less advantageous for studios
to be their whipping boys.
And we’re gonna get to that...
But first, let’s have a look at China’s
odd, winding journey into the film industry.
So the first thing we need to talk about is
the box office, and how much money movies
make while in theatres.
When studios report the projected box office
earnings of any given movie, usually on Sunday
but sometimes on Monday if it’s a long weekend,
you’ll see the gross amount the movie made
by selling tickets at movie theatres.
That number will be broken up into two different
sections.
Domestic, which includes the United States,
Canada.
And International, which is everyone else.
And then they’ll be combined for a Global
gross.
Gross being the most important word here.
In business terms, “gross income” is how
much is made before deductions, “net income”
is how much is made after deductions.
Which, for most people, that means the Net
is how much money you get paid after the government
has taken its taxes, and you’ve paid your
health insurance, and all that.
The gross is always a much nicer number than
that.
Now when it comes to movies, studios never
EVER report the net income because that represents
how much profit is made by the movie.
And if they report the profit made publicly
that leaves them open to things like paying
higher taxes.
A lot of actors also have points on a movie,
which means they get a certain percentage
of the profits.
Jack Nicholson notoriously got points on 1989’s
Batman, and publicly admitted to never having
to work again if he didn't want to.
But that’s not the only reason movie studios
don’t report net revenue from ticket sales.
The other, arguably more important reason,
is they don’t get to keep all of the ticket
sales from the get go.
Movie theatres take a giant chunk of that.
It tends to be different per studio and per
movie, with Disney demanding the highest percentage
of the box office returns, but it works out
to be around 50/50.
Studios will get a higher percentage when
a movie first comes out, and the percentage
will shift into the theatre’s favor the
longer a movie sticks around in cinemas.
So sometimes it’s not exactly 50/50, but
that’s the average.
And that’s not even getting into the fact
that marketing and distribution costs aren’t
calcuated into that figure.
Some movies have advertising campaigns that
cost as much as their production budget so
they’d need to make 4 times their budget
before they make a profit.
It can get so complicated that it’s no wonder
there’s an actual industry term called “Hollywood
Accounting.”
Yeah it’s mostly to hide money from the
government and people with profit participation,
but it’s also because you need to be a special
kind of accountant to wrap your head around
this whole thing.
And that’s just the studio side of it.
The theatre side can get complicated too.
That’s why you’ll see a lot of theatre
chains have special popcorn buckets and soda
cups available for big new movies on opening
weekend.
And charge a surcharge for them.
They want you to buy these things, which they
put a giant mark up on, so that they can bring
in more revenue at a time when any given movie’s
ticket sales will be mostly going to the studio.
Some theatres, before the days of Covid anyway,
would also charge extra for assigned seating.
That extra money would go exclusively to the
theatre, since they’re charging a convenience
fee on top of the initial fee to see the movie.
And this has been the way that Hollywood worked
for a really long time.
Ever since the supreme court decided that
movie studios were no longer allowed to own
theatre chains.
Which was a big thing back in the day.
Studios would own whole theatre chains and
only show their movies there.
So if you lived in a small town and your local
theatre was owned by Paramount but a Fox movie
was coming out that you really wanted to see,
well, you were shit out of luck.
Better hope it ends up in a second run theatre
in a few years.
But then, in the case of The United States
v. Paramount Pictures in 1948, it was decided
that studios could no longer own theatres
and so this new 50/50 split was eventually
worked out.
This will be changing soon though since the
Justice Department under the former Trump
administration decided to toss out the Paramount
Decrees so in August of 2022 Disney will be
allowed to buy as many theatres in the United
States as it wants.
But, for now, that 50/50 is still in effect.
And it’s all across the globe.
Europe, South America, Australia, and most
of Asia works under the same principle.
But then a fly landed in the ointment and
started messing things up.
A gigantic fly called China.
Filmmaking had taken off in China in the 1930s
when Chinese filmmakers, sick and tired of
Hollywood’s racist and offensive depictions
of the Chinese people, began making their
own feature films.
But After the communist revolution of 1949,
domestic films that were already released
and a selection of foreign films were banned.
Despite this though, movie attendance increased
sharply.
But then during the Cultural Revolution, the
film industry was severely restricted, coming
almost to a standstill from 1967 to 1972.
But in the years immediately following the
Cultural Revolution, the film industry flourished
as a medium of popular entertainment.
Production rose steadily, from 19 movies in
1977 to 125 movies in 1986.
And the numbers of films just kept rising
from there, though a pretty big chunk of the
movies released were actually propaganda films
financed by the Chinese government.
Following the international commercial success
of films like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon
and Hero, Hollywood started to take notice
of the growing power of the Chinese market.
And so they began a campaign to have more
and more Hollywood movies released in China,
which the government at the time was more
than willing to let happen because it helped
the nation feel further legitimized by the
international community.
China wasn’t a communist backwater nation
like North Korea.
It was a growing economy with happy citizens
who wanted to enjoy films from all over the
world.
How happy their citizens really were is up
for debate but that’s the narrative the
Chinese government propagated.
At first Hollywood was actually able to negotiate
pretty good terms with the country.
Something closer to a 40/60 split, with Hollywood
studios getting 60% of the box office returns.
But as the Chinese box office began growing
year over year, the Chinese government began
to renege on those agreements, forcing studios
back to the negotiating table, sometimes twice
a year.
Whereas studios would sign decade long contracts
with American theatre chains.
All of this lead to today, where China reportedly
keeps a whopping 75-80% of the box office
returns.
With studios getting as little as 20%.
There’s no public financial data for representing
this because, again, studios like to keep
how much their movies make, and where that
money comes from, as secret as possible.
Lest they be forced to pay their share of
taxes.
But people in the industry who work on the
financial side of things seem to have loose
lips, and they’re more than happy to talk
about how China is screwing over an American
industry.
Now 20% is better than nothing, right?
Avengers Endgame made $629 million in China,
so 20% of that is about 126 million.
Nothing to sneeze at.
It’s not the 315 million Disney would have
gotten under a 50/50 agreement but it’s
not nothing!
But Endgame may have made even more money
in China.
See, Chinese theatre chains have been known
to be a bit sneaky.
Tourists visiting the country and going to
see movies while there have seen ticket sellers
take your money for a Hollywood movie, ring
up the sale as a ticket for a Chinese propaganda
film, and then wave you on through.
These reports are all independent, and there’s
no financial data reporting this, again, so
take it with a grain of salt, but it seems
to be reported... a lot.
In fact a lot of people who work in the industry
are pretty convinced that China fudges their
numbers all the time.
Avengers Endgame had been the biggest opening
weekend of all time at a domestic box office,
with 357 million dollars in the US, and Canada.
A record most industry professionals were
convinced wouldn’t be broken for years.
But then, earlier this year, Detective Chinatown
3 opened in China to a reported opening weekend
of 400 million dollars.
These numbers weren’t released by any studio
or production company, of course, they were
announced by CGTN, China’s Global Television
Network.
Basically their English Language propaganda
channel.
The news wasn’t even announced on local
Chinese news, only the English Language variant.
Making it pretty clear that it was a dick
wagging move, allowing the Chinese film industry
— and by proxy the Chinese government — to
flex how well they were doing economically,
while most of the rest of the world’s cinemas
still stood empty because of COVID 19.
And since there’s no way for Hollywood studios
to confirm these numbers, they’re just forced
to take the Chinese government at its word.
So not only is Hollywood getting a fraction
of the money from China that they do from
the rest of the world, now China is basically
making the argument that while Hollywood apparently
needs China, China doesn’t need Hollywood.
In recent years Chinese audiences have also
shown a reticence to Hollywood movies, choosing
Chinese-produced films instead.
Leading to more and more domestic Chinese
films being produced, leading to fewer theatre
screens being available for Hollywood movies,
leading to even less money being made in China
by American studios.
Suddenly that 20% number isn’t sounding
all that great.
The Chinese Government, via their censorship
bureau, is also making it increasingly difficult
for Hollywood movies to get released in China
at all.
In November of 2016, China passed a law banning
content deemed harmful to the “dignity,
honor, and interests” of the People's Republic
and encouraging the promotion of “socialist
core values," approved by the National People's
Congress Standing Committee.
So basically any movie that portrays China
in anything but the most glowing light will
be banned immediately.
Studios began trying to get around this by
working with Chinese Production companies
to ensure that a movie would meet the specifications
set out by the government.
Such as Alibaba Pictures, Wanda Media, or
Legendary Entertainment… a company that
was originally an American company but after
years of investment from a Chinese production
house, Wanda Media, the American stakeholders
lost control of the company to the Chinese
investors.
Once Wanda Media reached 50% plus one of the
voting shares, they took control of the company
and fired the American executives.
But even when studios try to work with Chinese
producers, that doesn’t guarantee success.
It just leads to movies doing well in China,
with possibly inflated returns thanks to those
wonky ticket sellers I mentioned earlier.
But then... doing worse in the rest of the
world because everyone else sees the movie
j**king off to the Chinese government and
is a bit… turned off.
This has been happening especially obviously
with the Fast and the Furious franchise.
2017’s Fate of the Furious, a Chinese co-production,
made 226 million dollars in North America,
but 392 million in China.
Another was Alita Battle Angel, with 85 million
in the US, and 133 million China.
Transformers: The Last Knight made 130 million
in the US, and 228 million in China.
This is becoming more and more common.
Meanwhile Hollywood, especially Disney, who
got spooked at how poorly the new Star Wars
movies did in China (which honestly was likely
because the original trilogy was never released
in the Middle Kingdom), have been trying to
make movies specifically for China.
The live action Mulan and Marvel’s Shang
Chi come to mind.
But Mulan only made 40 million dollars in
China, and Shang Chi, to this day, still hasn’t
been granted a release.
While not officially stated by the Chinese
government, it’s likely because the movie’s
star, Simu Liu, publicly spoke about how his
family fled China for Canada.
And China doesn’t want that kind of back
talk.
That’s also why, assumedly, Marvel hasn’t
balked at the gay relationship in Marvel’s
Eternals.
They’re not cutting it out for countries
in the middle east who demanded it, for the
most part.
Those countries have since banned the movie.
They didn’t cut it out when Russia demanded
it.
They just ended up giving it an 18+ rating.
So why has Marvel grown such a back bone all
of the sudden?
Well.
Because The Eternals never even had a chance
to be released in China because director,
Chloe Zhao, who was born in Beijing, left
China to make movies in Hollywood.
An act China will not soon forget, and so
her movies are now verboten there.
So why worry about appeasing the Chinese government’s
backward policies on LGBT representation,
when you know it’s never going to get released
there anyway?
And even if they did agree to release it,
who’s to say that they wouldn’t “sell”
you a ticket for Eternals but count the sale
for a domestic propaganda movie like The Battle
at Lake Chanjin, a war movie released in China
in September of this year.
About Chinese soldiers overcoming the odds
and defeating American troops in Korea.
It’s apparently grossed 858 million dollars
so far.
Just in China.
During a pandemic.
And is, as of now, the highest grossing movie
globally of 2021.
…Allegedly…
And maybe all of this is for the best.
Maybe once China is out of the equation, Hollywood
will lose its excuse for not creating more
LGBT characters.
But the funny thing is, if the Chinese people
actually had a say in it… we’d probably
have more gay characters in movies than we
already do.
One of the things I notice a lot when this
topic comes up in comment sections (and really,
I can’t afford a therapist so at the very
least I need to stop going into the comment
sections), is that people seem to think that
Chinese people are inherently homophobic.
That the very sight of two men kissing makes
them vomit in rage!
Well!
Have I got news for you, dear viewer.
Have you ever heard of BL?
It’s the less creepy way of saying “Boys’
Love”, which is a genre of movie, tv show,
comic, and novel that’s taking parts of
the world by storm.
And one of those parts is China.
The government wouldn’t be instituting “no
gays in movies” laws if they weren’t seeing
gays popping up in a whole lot of other places.
So what is BL?
Well, I’ll differ to an expert.
According to Manga Planet:
“Originating in Japan, Boys’ Love or BL
is a literary genre or media depicting the
romance between male characters.
Commonly referred to as “yaoi” by overseas
fans, from books to fan fiction, manga, anime,
and video games.
BL stories tend to be written mostly by women.
Boys’ Love began as fan works by women fans.
Later in the 1980s, yaoi manga expanded from
fan groups to mainstream media via anime or
OVA (original video animation) adaptations.
Since then, Japan has produced yaoi media
through various platforms.”
The internet propelled the global growth and
popularity of Boys’ Love, as non-Japanese
fans were finally able to read translated
BL manga.
And one of the largest markets for it... was
China.
Subtle gay dramas and love stories, adapted
from boys’ love webnovels, have become a
very lucrative business in China.
But even with the censorship laws, the appetite
for queer content is just too big to ignore.
A demand that comes mostly not from gay men,
mind you, but straight women.
At least eight shows adapted from novels with
boys’ love romances premiered in 2021 across
China’s major streaming platforms.
The stories range from historical-fantasy
action flicks to modern mystery thrillers
and teenage melodramas.
Making and showing BL dramas in China is a
tightly wound tight rope act between the profit-driven
entertainment industry and the homophobic
censorship of the Xi Jinping regime.
In 2016, the hit teen series Addicted (also
known as Heroin), a drama with explicit gay
scenes premiered.
It grabbed the attention of the Chinese government’s
censors when it first aired in January of
that year.
The first episode garnered 10 million views
in the span of 24 hours setting the record
of the highest number of views on the first
day in China's streaming television history.
In less than a month, the series reached over
100 million views.
It became a massive trending topic on Weibo,
basically Chinese Twitter, with the show’s
hashtag being viewed 849 million times.
But then on February 23, all episodes of the
show were removed from all Chinese video streaming
websites three episodes before the season
finale.
This was by the order of the NRTA, or National
Radio and Television Administration, due to
"the gay and explicit content".
The show is now impossible to view or access
via mainland China’s internet.
The last three episodes of the first season
were uploaded to YouTube a few days later
to make them accessible to viewers outside
of mainland China.
The censorship of the series sparked rampant
criticism.
Online discussions on Weibo with the hashtag
"removal of Addiction" received more than
110 million views within a day of its cancellation.
The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine
even published articles about it.
But despite the Chinese government’s best
efforts to erase the show from existence,
it’s gained a huge following outside of
The Middle Kingdom, and a second season is
coming soon, but production and distribution
will be done in Taiwan.
A country where the BL genre has become an
industry all by itself.
But I think that’s a different video.
In 2018, the sci-fi drama Guardian went offline
two months after its release, even though
the original gay romance storyline was re-written
as a friendship to try to appeal to the censors.
They didn’t care about the rewrite though
because Chinese viewers were shipping the
characters whether they were written gay or
not.
Before it was banned, Guardian had already
pulled in over a billion views.
The potential for some serious money encouraged
companies to continue with the BL genre in
China, but with a more understated tone that
could possibly bypass the government censors.
The 2019 fantasy series The Untamed, featuring
an unlikely bond between a man with magic
powers and a stoic prince, started an online
craze over the pair’s implicit romance.
But the show’s promotion focused on its
portrayal of Chinese traditional culture — a
push consistent with Chinese Communist Party
propaganda.
The show was queer baity, but the novel on
which it was based certainly was not.
That featured a very explicit love story between
the two main characters, but was self-censored
when adapted to meet the censorship guidelines
of the Xi Jinping government.
But it didn’t matter.
Like so much queer baiting before, people
saw through the weak venere of heterosexuality.
They took the bait, so to speak.
The series has accumulated a total of 9.5
billion views in China, as of this summer,
and had also received an international release
via Netflix.
It was described as a global phenomenon, taking
off like no BL series before it.
Making its way all around Asia and, with the
Netflix deal, all across Europe and North
America as well.
TenCent, the Chinese streaming platform it
originated on saw 2.6 million new subscribers
to the service when it was released.
And WeTV, an app that lets you watch BL content
anywhere in the world, saw growth of 250%
while the show was airing.
In January 2020, the cast members planned
to embark on a multi-city worldwide fan meetings
tour.
Cities included Bangkok, Singapore, Tokyo,
Seoul, Macau, Kuala Lumpur, Toronto, Los Angeles,
New York, but it was cancelled due to COVID19.
Even the Chinese government has endorsed it.
The overseas popularity of these romantic
sword-wielding heroes is often highlighted
in Chinese media coverage, focusing in on
the massive overseas streaming numbers and
its ability to build a growing appreciation
for the charm of Chinese culture.
Meanwhile, production houses and streaming
sites have snapped up the adaptation rights
of other popular BL novels.
Priest, author of Guardian and Word of Honor,
will see at least four more of her novels
adapted into live action series or movies.
Knowing viewers jokingly call the homoerotic
relationships in these dramas “socialist
brotherhoods,” a reference to how on-screen
homosexuality has to be disguised as bromances
in line with official state ideology.
I’m surprised that moniker hasn’t been
taken up by some of my subscribers, to be
honest.
But the rise of BL in China, sadly, doesn’t
mean the Chinese government is going to soften
its stance on LGBTQ rights anytime soon.
For all its appeal to homoeroticism, the BL
business in China survives by avoiding any
discussion of these rights while focusing
on the physical attractiveness of its male
characters.
Ge Liang, a researcher at King’s College
London said:
“By hinting at male homoerotic love, the
directors and actors are appropriating the
interest of… gay life, trying to turn these
into cash and traffic.
But instead of speaking up for the LGBTQ community,
they stay in line with China’s official
policy on gay people: ‘keep them silent
and keep them sinful.’”
Most gay people in China still face prevalent
discrimination in households, schools, and
workplaces.
But these struggles are invisible to the public
eye, as state censors ban almost all representation
of obvious homosexuality in mass media.
In 2018, a writer was sentenced to more than
10 years in jail for writing and selling gay
erotica.
However, some members of the gay community
see BL dramas as a precious platform for queer
stories.
Where Chinese state media often portrays gay
men as enemies to traditional values, and
sources of social instability, subtle BL dramas
have perhaps become the best form of queer
representation in China’s state-sanctioned
pop culture.
But in March of this year, just as new series
Word of Honor earned an impressive score of
8.6 out of 10 on review site Douban, an op-ed
published via the state-run News Agency warned
against the “negative influence” of BL
on impressionable teenagers.
Many feared this signalled an imminent crackdown
on the genre.
And then…
The Chinese Government officially banned any
representation of men in media that did not
fit perfectly within the ideal of masculinity.
No more bromances.
No more coding.
No more lingering looks or soft touches.
President Xi Jinping has called for a ‘national
rejuvenation,’ with tighter Communist Party
control of business, education, culture, and
religion.
Companies and the public are under increasing
pressure to align with its vision for a more
powerful China.
Which… if you look to your history books,
when a country starts locking down the media
and attacking a very specific minority group
as being the propagator of all the nation’s
ails, as the Chinese government is now doing
with what they describe as ‘sissy men’...
That usually means the government is on the
ropes, whether we see it publicly or not.
Someone might be asking: well why is the Chinese
government so obsessed with clamping down
on removing gay representation — from their
media?
Why does any political body specifically target
a removal of queerness from media?
It seems to be kind of a weird and arbitrary
thing to hate on, right?
If you wanted a strong natoional sense of
unity, why would you specifically target one
group of people — specifically a group of
people that cannot be culturally erased because
more gay babies are born every day.
You could argue that the reason is because
a totalitarian state is interested in population
expansion.
Queer people can be seen as a population limmiter.
Especially if a nation is engaged in expansionism
or involved in regular military conflicts.
But when it comes to China… they have population
control mandates.
As well as the fact that The People’s Army
isn’t publicly engaged in any hot conflicts
right now.
As well as it would simply just be easier
to have mandatory in-vetro pregnancies for
lesbian women, and mandatory sperm domantions
from gay men.
Alternatively, you could argue that many totalitarian
regimes tend to lean on scripture and religious
doctrine as a means of controlling a population.
There’s no better way to get someone to
live their life a certain way, than by telling
them they're going to go to hell if they don't.
For all eternity.
Or better yet, dangle afterlife rewards programs
in front of them.
As it so happens, gay people aren’t really
compatible with MOST modern religions in the
world…
But China is a Maoist Communist state, and
as a result has banned most religious practices.
Dictatorial theocracies are kind of hit and
miss control method though, because what inevitably
happens is one group of extremists pop up
and declare that another group isn’t being
extremist enough.
And splintering is what regimes like the one
in China tend to avoid.
Keep in mind the methodology of control in
a dictatorship is to unify public, military,
and commercial thought into a single national
direction that all feeds into consolidating
the power of the dictator.
The reason why Soviet communism banned religion
was because they recognized that not only
did religious freedom afford opportunities
for diverting power away from the state, but
also created a precedent for there to be power
above the state.
And if a religious figure can convince you
that God wants you to defy the state, then
the state is in trouble.
You only really see theocracies in smaller
countries, both in terms of population and
sheer geographical size.
In order to assure that the people associate
the religious order with state mandate, you
usually need a strong martial presence.
Which is much harder to organize in a significantly
large nation.
This should illustrate just how delicate dictatorships
actually are.
In order for the state to function, everybody
in the nation needs to be doing what the state
wants them to do.
Given that the state is meant to function
as a well-oiled machine, there isn’t a whole
lot of slack for, say, a workers strike.
Take this however you want, but... if your
economy tells you that it can’t possibly
survive a workers strike, you just might be
in a totalitarian regime.
In most cases, having a nation that is divided
in its thinking means that the state has a
diminished capacity to predict and plan the
movements of its own people.
It’s also just more efficient.
If you’re going to the gas station for a
slushie run, it’s easiest if your 10 friends
all like blue.
But if your friends all want something different,
you’re going to need go in with a list.
Or, you could just tell everyone that blue
is the only colour available.
If it’s the only colour they think is available,
of course it’s going to be their choice.
Complete unity is the objective – it’s
difficult to control a billion people.
But it is much easier to control one culture
shared by a billion people.
The stronger the cohesion to a singular culture,
the easier it is for the state to plan and
predict social, economic, and cultural movements.
So how does all of this relate to gay censorship?
Consider how much of our society is built
around different milestones of life.
When you graduate from high school.
When you get married.
When you buy a house.
When you start having children.
A lot of us don’t even realize these are
milestones, and we don’t even realize they’re
optional.
All those articles about how millennials are
destroying the housing industry because we’re
not buying houses, the car industry because
we live in cities and take public transit,
the napkin industry because we use paper towels,
or the diamond industry because we’re not
getting married as young as we used to.
Those are based on these expectations about
how people are ‘supposed’ to act.
Not feeding into these industries when we
were expected to is a huge disruption in how
these respective industries project what their
profits will be.
Now take China, and instead of picturing many
different industries, see China itself as
an industry.
In order for China to function, the state
needs as many people in the nation as humanly
possible to conform to a very specific collection
of roles and identities.
The more people deviate from that singular
identity, the less control the Chinese government
has to properly manage those people.
And that’s why queer people, by nature,
challenge the state’s ability to expect
and predict the behaviour of it’s people.
In our modern society, queer people have existed
on the fringe of society for thousands of
years.
As a quasi-legal, sometimes entirely illegal
class of people, we mostly don’t feel a
need to conform to social standards and milestones.
There’s no reason to get married in your
early 20s because getting married at all wasn’t
an option.
Queer people, thus, don’t need to buy a
house in the suburbs to have children.
We don’t need cars if we live in the inner
city.
Domestic appliances?
We’re cooking for one.
We didn’t get engaged, so we don’t — or
we didn’t used to — buy rings.
Take a moment to consider how disastrous this
is to a society that is constructed around
buying things at certain times in your life,
under certain expectations of how you ought
to live.
And not only that, but each queer person can
have a vastly different set of expiriences
from the next and therefor gravitate to different
lifestyles.
Queer people — within ourselves — lack
unity as a subdemographic.
For a governing body which requires a homogenous
population in order to consolidate power,
we are a bit of a nightmare.
And it’s for this reason, neither baby making
nor religious bigotry, that China in particular
clamps down on queer people.
Increasing the available ‘accepted’ identities
in a given society adds an incredible layer
of complexity when it comes to managing how
this population ought to behave.
One unified culture means that this one culture
only needs one media stream to project messages
toward.
A state-sanctioned heterosexual romantic comedy
which contains pro-state messaging will be
received and absorbed by straight people — because
they want a relationship like the main characters
have, they model their life after the main
characters.
(This is in incredibly simplified terms but
you would be amazed at how easily media can
influence your actions, so this isn’t much
of a stretch.)
If queerness is an acceptable identity, then
queer people are not going to identify with
that messaging in that heterosexual rom com.
Then the state needs to make a separate media
stream to accommodate queer people — a media
stream that will not be absorbed by straight
audiences.
In a pragmatic sense, the state is spending
twice as much money to project the same pro-state
messaging to two different audiences.
How old should gay people be when they get
married versus how old should straight people
be?
Synchronising both of these messages and assuring
that they both feed into state power consolidation
is quite a task.
And far less efficient than projecting one
message to one homogeneous social group.
Limiting the available identities that a citizen
can occupy is totalitarian regime 1-0-1.
That dates back to the earliest empires.
Rome, for instance, owed its success in no
small part to a very rigid, very narrow, range
of gender identities, family roles, and a
very limited class mobility.
As the state could trust that a Roman man
in Italia would hold the same social values
as a Roman man in Germania, they could plan
and predict how large sections of provinces
would respond to legislation and taxation.
As it so happened, same-sex intimacy wasn’t
strictly incompatible with Roman family structures.
But Rome also entirely demanded slave labour
to function so maybe this isn’t a fantastic
social model to look up to.
And it’s not like gay persecution is limited
to “left wing” totalitarianism.
China is undergoing a similar process to America
in the 1950s.
A very pro-free market, pro-white, pro-straight
process that came to be known as McCarthyism,
named after senator Joseph McCarthy.
The legacy of McCarthyist crackdowns was an
intended plot to root out any communist or
socialist ideology from America, under the
guise of rooting out Soviet spies.
Which… was not all that successful.
They caught a lot of people who fed information
to spies… but they didn’t actually catch
a lot of those actual soviet sleeper agents.
In reality, McCarthyism was an effort to distinguish
the cultural identity of ‘propper American’
people.
This is when you got all those info-videos
about how to live your life, which got weirdly
specific.
How to hold a family meeting.
How to be a popular teenager.
How to go to the store.
To say nothing of sexual education manuals
directed to young women.
Anyone who behaved like the people in the
videos was a proper American.
Those who did not were possibly ‘communists’
and should be reported to the authorities
for investigation.
At the time, America was convinced that their
capitalist way of life was under constant
threat, and were informed by the government
that even one ‘non American’ living in
your neighbourhood could be a threat to national
social cohesion.
But McCarthyism didn’t stick in America,
simply because singular power consolidation
was conflicting with American party-politics,
freedom of religion, and the free market which
began to capitalize on artistic formats which
McCarthy considered to be non-American.
Black music and art, gay men in hollywood,
women in publishing.
There were simply too many channels of media
for the state to regulate and countermand.
The Chinese government’s saving grace, thus
far, had been the proverbial iron curtain
that separated global media from Chinese audiences.
The state can control what media the public
receives, the state can dictate what a ‘proper
citizen’ is.
This is why Hong Kong was such a problem ($ubt!tle$
8locked)
So it’s not like China is deliberately opening
their captured audience to the rest of the
world.
It’s just getting easier for the media to
move fluidly across borders without a government’s
consent.
Chinese creators who travel abroad may return
to China with fresh perspectives and want
to include facets of life beyond what is strictly
sanctioned by the Chinese government.
And as the government cracks down on representation,
they find more clever ways to code it into
the media, while still checking off all the
other boxes for praising the state.
Like The Untamed.
But for some reason, even coding queerness
is too much for China now though.
As I’ve said, Chinese law about representation,
specifically in line with gender roles and
expressions of masculinity, have strange implications.
Right now, actors and creators from South
Korea, Japan, Australia, and even China are
flocking to Taiwan and Thailand, which right
now stand at the dual seats of a media empire
for producing BL content.
Comics, novels, movies, television shows.
There is so much BL media coming out of Taiwan
and Thailand, that you need a website catalogue
to track it all.
And there’s plenty coming from other Asian
countries as well, but Taiwan and Thailand
seem to be pumping out BL content faster than
Disney pumps out Star Wars and Marvel combined.
China shares a lot of cultural identity and
history with these countries too… broadly
speaking.
And given the massive amounts of cash that
China hands out through its arts programs,
you’d think that China itself would want
to capitalize on BL the way Thailand and Taiwan
have.
The international outreach would be positive,
and ultimately garnish a lot of goodwill from
queer audiences, for softening their pespective
of China and Maoism.
Not to mention the financial return.
So why is China not engaging?
Because control over their own population
is more beneficial to the legacy and stability
of the state.
A citizen may ask: “If it’s suddenly okay
to be gay… what else is okay?”
And it may very well be that the people of
China are starting to ask those kinds of questions.
China’s new media laws — which also apply
to forigen media shown in China — crackdown
on gender roles in a way that is both specific
and very generalized.
For instance, a man cannot be depicted as
effeminate in any way now.
Which is always difficult to gauge because
there’s a question of what kind of man are
you talking about?
Is this man sensitive enough to hug his children?
Does he cry?
Does he cook?
We know that two men touching in any way is
strictly off-limits.
And given how successful China’s subtle
approach to censoring gay content has been…
this seems a bit heavy handed.
Or… maybe it isn’t as successful as we
believe.
I’ve met a few gay men from China, both
online and in real life.
And when it comes to the topic of queer acceptance
in mainland China, I’ve been told it’s
more or less an ambivilant issue.
No, it’s not strictly socially accepted,
but homophobia is more about not wanting your
own children to be gay — because of legacy
— but no effort seems to be given to open
bigotry toward gay people in general.
And bear in mind, this is… absolutely not
an adequate sample size to gauge the overall
attitude of queerness in mainland China.
And is focused mostly on cultural attitudes
in urban centres.
And also limited by the individual perspectives
of the people I’ve spoken to, and the kind
of people that I am likely to encounter.
So take this less as hard statistics and more
of a glimpse into the possibility that we,
in the rest of the world, may not have the
clearest idea of what the Chinese people,
themselves, are comfortable with.
To say nothing of the… throbbing statistics
that demonstrate very clearly that the Chinese
people are comfortable enough — with at
least gay men — to fully support BL content...
when it has been produced.
Because the new crackdowns on identity tell
me that something very precarious is going
on in China — and that the government is
struggling to maintain social unity.
They’re seeing splinters and groups which
lean towards inclusive lifestyles.
That they see the people becoming comfortable
with fragmenting subcultures.
And so in a nation where the state controls
all media in the hopes that they can use media
to control the people, they are placing much
tighter constraints about what messaging the
media can depict.
In other nations which influenced the population
with propaganda, this was always a red flag...
that the culture of the people was developing
in a way that did not align with the state’s
agenda.
And Hollywood is just another shred of evidence.
As Chinese laws become tighter and tighter
about what kinds of depictions of men can
be screened in China, Hollywood is going to
have fewer and fewer films that are going
to be able to qualify.
Not to mention, more competition with Chinese
films, fewer screens in Chinese cinemas, and
a smaller and smaller cut of the Chinese box
office.
The rest of the so-called ‘modern world’
is pushing for more diversity.
For a deconstruction of typical gender roles.
So Chinese interests of the state are putting
Hollywood in a very strange situation: conform
entirely to Chinese demand for the chance
that China will, first of all, screen your
movie, and second of all, report accurate
box office numbers.
Or…
Hollywood studios can simply make movies for
(most of) the rest of the world.
I think that we, the queers of every damn
country on this planet, should take pride
in the fact that in a lot of cases in the
last thousand years, the big focus of crumbling
fascistic regimes was also queer people.
We’re a bunch of homos living our lives,
and yet we represent one of the single most
pivotal disruptions to dictatorships.
Shouldn’t it be an awesome feeling that
we have that kind of power to automatically
disrupt authoritarian control?
That our very existence runs so antithetical
to a government controlling its people that
they have to turn propaganda into a science
to suppress us?
They’d never admit that we have that kind
of power but their actions say otherwise.
Every morning when you wake up and go about
your queer life, you are inherently shaking
the foundation on which dictatoriships are
built.
Because they have shown that totalitarianism
cannot exist when queer people exist alongside
it.
But unlike fascists and dictators, we don’t
fall.
No matter what the church, or politicians,
or world leaders say…
We remain.
When Rome fell, we were still there.
When the church started losing influence,
we were still there.
When the fabled thousand-year-Reich collapsed,
And when this anti-queer Chinese government
sees its last days, we will still be there.
We’ve always been here.
We’re always going to be here.
Remember that.